
Linux 300+ Technical Interview Questions    

  1. When you login you get “$” prompt, what is the prompt for root? 
                         # 
  2. Explain the difference between grep and egrep? 
                   Search online
  3. What is the port # for DNS, NTP and NFS? 
                  53,123 and 111/2049 
4. What is the configuration file name of DNS and where is it located? 
                  /etc/named.conf 
5. How many new directories will be created after running the following command 
                  mkdir {a..c}{1..3}  9
6. Your PC is configured with a DNS server address but not the default gateway. Can the PC access internet? 
                      No 
7. What is the difference between IP and Gateway? 
                   Search online 
8. Can you assign one static IP to 2 computers, if not then why? 
                   No because it will create IP conflict 
9. How to change IPs address to static? 
                   ifconfig x.x.x.x 
10. You are trying to ping a server by hostname and you get an error message, “ping: unknown host …”.  What could be the reason and how to solve the problem so you can ping it by hostname?
                   Check for /etc/hosts or DNS to see if it has hostname to IP entry
11. Explain the difference between relative and absolute path? 
                   Absolute path starts from / where relative path is your current directory
12. List 3 different methods of adding user?
                   Search online
13- What is the command to change file/directory ownership and group?
                        chown and chgrp 
14- List any 3 type of filesystem? 
                     ext4,NTFS and FAT 
15- When you login you get a message on the screen.  What is the name of that file and where is it located? 
                                 /etc/motd 
16- What is /bin directory used for?
                        earch online 
17- What are the different types of DNS Server 
                        Master and secondary
18- How to change a user password?
                         passwd username                  
19- What is the version of Redhat Linux you have experience with? 
                             7.4 
20- List any 4 linux distributions? 
                    Redhat, CentOS, Ubuntu and SUSE 
21- How to logoff from the system? 
                      exit 
22- Give any 3 examples of operating systems? 
                      Windows, Linux and MAC 
23- How to create a directory? 
                          mkdir 
24- Where are the zone files located for DNS service? 
                     /var/named/zonefiles 
25- How to check kernel version? 
                   uname –a 
26- Which directory has all the configuration files? 
                            /etc 
27- How to become root user from a regular user? 
                           su – 
28- How many mega bytes in 1 giga bytes? 
                 search online 
29- What is the purpose of having different network ports? 
                So the communication of each application goes through a dedicated port 
30- How to display first column of a file? 
              cat filename | awk ‘{print $1}’ 
31- What is the name of DNS rpm package? 
                      bind 
32- What is the difference between nslookup and dig commands? 
                   Search online 
33. How to check your user id and group id? 
                      id 
34- How to check a file’s permission? 
                    ls –l  
35- What is the difference between “kill” and “kill -9” command? 
                  Search online 
36- What is subnet? 
                 Search online 
37- You are troubleshooting an issue with Redhat support and they have asked you to send the contents of /etc directory.  How and which method you will use to transfer the contents? 
                tar (compress) the entire /etc directory and ftp 
38- what is root home directory? 
                /root 
39- What is rsyslogd deamon and its purpose? 
                 Search online 
40- Your company has terminated a server administrator. What is first thing as an administrator you should do to enhance the security? 
                    Change root password 
41- How to check the computer name or host name in Linux? 
                    hostname 
42- Which permission allows a user to run an executable with the permissions of the owner of that file? 
                    First 3 bits should have x 
43- What is the command to untar a tarred files?
                      untar 
44- What is /proc directory used for? 
                    Search online 
45- What is the purpose of nsswitch.conf file 
                  It tells the system where to go to resolve hostnames 
46- List 3 basic commands to navigate the filesystem? 
                      cd, pwd and ls 
47- Which service/daemon should be running on the server that allows you to connect remotely? 
                   sshd 
48- What is the purpose of firewall? 
                Search online 
49- List any 3 IT components? 
             Hardware, OS and Applications 
50- Which directory has all the commands we use, e.g. ls, cd etc.?  
             /usr/bin or /bin 
51- What is the difference between memory, virtual memory and cache? 
            Search online 
52- Which of the following is correct? 
                Hardware  → Operating System  → Users 
                Operating System → Users → Hardware 
                Database  → Hardware  → Users 
53. Which of the following is a communication command? 
              grep , mail , touch , cd 
54. How to rename a file or directory? 
                mv 
55- How to change a hostname in Linux? 
           S  earch online 
56- How to check network interfaces in Linux? 
               ifconfig 
57- Why is “tail –f logfilename” command used most often and what does it do? 
            It will output all incoming logs in real time 
58- What type of hardware have you worked on? 
          You should get yourself familiar with Dell, HP and UCS hardware by going online and check the vendor websites 
59- How to sort a file in reverse order? 
            cat filename | sort –r 
60- What is the name of operating system that runs Unix? 
             Solaris, HP-UX etc. 
61- List all byte sizes from smallest to largest? 
             Search online 
62- How to check the total number of partition in Linux? 
            fdisk -l 
63- How to access a linux system from a linux system? 
            ssh 
64- Explain the procedure of bonding 2 NICs or interfaces together? 
            Search online 
65- What is the exact command syntax to list the 5th column of a file and cut the first 3 letters? 
            cat filename | awk ‘{print $5}’ | cut –c1-3 
66- What is /etc/hosts file used for? 
            To resolve hostnames with IP address 
67- List any 3 options of ‘df’ command and what they are used for? 
            Search online 
68- What is the command to change file/directory permissions? 
            chmod 
69- What is the purpose of pipe (|)? 
            To combine multiple commands 
70- What is /etc directory used for? 
            For configuration files 
71- Which command is used to list files in a directory? 
            ls –l 
72- There is a command which gives you information about other commands, please explain that command and what is it used for? 
              man 
73- How to delete a file and a directory? 
            rm filename and rmdir dirname 
74- What is the difference between “tail” and “tail -10”? 
            None 
75- List 4 commands to display or read a file contents? 
            cat, more, less, vi 
76- Which command is used to read the top 5 lines of a file? 
            head -5 filename 
77- What are the different commands or methods to write to a file? 
            echo > filename and vi filename 
78- What is swap space and how to check swap space? 
            Search online 
79- What is inode and how to find an inode of a file? 
            Search online 
80- Which file to edit for kernel tuning? 
            Search online 
81- What is the latest version of Redhat? 
            Search online 
82- Name the command to find specific word from a file? 
            grep word filename 
83- You have scheduled a job using crontab but it does not run at the time you specified, what could be the reason and how would you troubleshoot? 
            Check your system time 
            Check your crontab entry 
            Check /var/log/messages 
84- How to check system hardware information? 
            dmidecode 
85- How to check network interface MAC address? 
            ifconfig 
86- If I don’t want others to read my file1, how to do that? 
            Remove r from the last 3 bits of file permission 
87- What is the purpose of “uniq” and “sed” command? 
            Search online 
88- Which command is used to list the contents of a directory in the most recent time and in reverse order, meaning the most updated file should be listed on the bottom? 
            ls –ltr 
89- What is the difference between tar, gzip and gunzip? 
             Search online 
90- What are the different ways to install and OS? 
             DVD, DVD iso and network boot 
91- How to view difference between two files? 
             diff file1 and file2 
92- You noticed that one of the Linux servers has no disk space left, how would you troubleshoot that issue? 
             If running LVM then add more disk and extend LVM 
             If not running LVM then add more disk, create a new partition and link the new partition to an existing file system 
93- How to check Redhat version release? 
             uname –a or /etc/redhat-release 
94- What is the difference between TCP and UDP? 
             Search online 
95- What is a zombie process? 
             Search online 
96- How do you search for a pattern/word in a file and then replace it in an entire file?  
             sed command 
97- Explain the purpose of “touch” command? 
             To create an empty file 
98- If a command hangs, how to stop it and get the prompt back? 
            Ctrl C 
99- Which command is used to count words or lines? 
             wc 
100- How to check the number of users logged in? 
             who 
101- What is the command to view the calendar of 2011? 
             cal 2011 
102-  Which command is used to view disk space? 
             df –h 
103-  How to create a new group in Linux? 
             groupadd 
104-  What is the command to send a message to everyone who is logged into the system? 
             wall 
105-  Which command is used to check total number of disks? 
            fdisk –l 
106-  What is an mail server record in DNS? 
             MX 
107-  What does the following command line do?           
              ps -ef | awk '{print $1}' | sort | uniq 
              List the first column  of all running processes, sort them and  remove duplicates 
108-  You get a call that when a user goes to www.yourwebsite.com it fails and gets an error, how do you troubleshoot? 
               Check for user internet 
               Check to see if user computer has DNS for hostname lookup 
               Check to see if the server is up that is running that website 
               Check to see if the server’s web service is running  
               Check for DNS availability which is resolving that website 
109-  List 4 different directories in /? 
               /etc, /bin, /tmp, /home 
 
110. What is the output of the following command:    $tail -10 filename | head -1 
           It will show the first line from the last 10 lines of a file 
 
111. What are the different fields in /etc/passwd file? 
            Search online 
 
112. Which command is used to list the processes? 
           ps –ef  
 
113. What is the difference between “hostname” and “uname” commands? 
                 Hostname will give you system name and uname will give you OS information 
 
114. How to check system load? 
            top and uptime command 
115. How to schedule jobs? 
            crontab and at 
116. What is the 3rd field when setting up crontab? 
          Day of the month 
117.  What is the command to create a new user? 
        useradd 
118. What is the “init #”
           for system reboot? 
119. How to restart a service? 
